I am delighted to recommend this student for admission to university of x's graduate program. I have been her academic advisor throughout her undergrad years, as well as the course and lab instructor for a senior level course.
Tashaffi had the single most remarkable character development out of all the students I have been an advisor to. I remember having a discussion with her about her poor academic performance during her first year when she expressed that she was struggling with burnout and fatigue. I was concerned that a lack of motivation so early on in her undergrad will only escalate over time and permeate her career. However, her grades started drastically changing from the fourth semester. To my surprise, she maintained a consistent upward trend . Not only did she manage to achieve stellar grades in all of the subsequent semesters, but she secured the most sought out software engineering internship opportunity in Bangladesh. She later on clarified how she used time-boxing to compartmentalize academic stress that ultimately got her back on track. But I believe her relentless optimism combined with the fact that she is an astoundingly level-headed individual is what ultimately contributed to her resilience.
When she developed an interest in research in the specific domain of privacy and security, she reached out to a faculty member who had been working on this field and voluntarily participated in a research project under her supervision amidst her professional commitments. Tashaffi has always demonstrated a keen sense of career direction. She sets specific goals and narrows down her focus to actively seek out opportunities that will steer her towards that direction.
Another quality of her that deserves a mention is that, despite being an introverted person, she is a skillful speaker. She would always be the designated presenter during team projects in undergrad. Her communication skills, resolution, as well as her proactive and independent nature makes her well suited to face the challenges of postgrad studies in a foreign country. Therefore, I give her my highest recommendation. If she follows the trajectory of continual growth that she has demonstrated since her undergrad, I am confident that she will excel in her career.


Masum hai website:

I am applying to grad school this year in computer science (the specific research field is privacy and security).

I have attached a letter of recommendation I have written for myself here on behalf of the professor. The content of the letter is okay, but I think the vocabulary and storytelling need to be better. It should sound more like a professor wrote it. 

Basically, the qualities about myself that I would like to highlight through the letter are:
(Specific situation that highlights those qualities about me are mentioned inside parentheses)

Ability to overcome failure (The first para covers this, basically my last two year grades are really good, what I did was focus on working out and time boxing to manage stress and prevent burnout, professors still tell junior undergrad students my story to get them out of a rut)

Excellent communication skills and public speaking (I always present in team projects)

Level headed and  is able to handle intense stress (When faced with a hopeless situation like really poor grades, I don't lose hope and stop trying to improve, instead I can set a clear plan of action to pull me out of that situation)

Has a clear sense of career direction and what she wants out of life (I am specifically applying to one field of research and in one country, demonstrating that I am not ambiguous about what I want)

Committed to her goals (Despite having professional commitments, I specifically studied for a certification called CompTIA Security+ to gain domain-specific knowledge, also I started a privacy related research project which was unpaid, I have been preparing for the postgrad application for a long time now, it was not a hasty decision for me) 
Academic excellence (first para covers this)

She can make decisions for herself without following trends or the influence of peer pressure (evident by the fact that I have done voluntary research to come to the conclusion that this was the right choice for me)

Whenever applicable, please mention how a certain quality might be a good match for postgrad life. I wrote the letter following this link:
https://mitadmissions.org/apply/parents-educators/writingrecs/