I am delighted to give my full recommendation for Tashaffi XXX, a diligent and well-grounded student, who is passionate about joining your University’s graduate program. I have been her academic advisor all through her undergraduate years, in addition to being her course and lab instructor for a senior level course.

Through it all, Tashaffi depicted the most remarkable character, which I believe she developed out of all the activities she indulged in during her studies. I remember having a discussion with her at one point about her poor academic performance; this was during her first year, where she openly stated that she was struggling with burnout and fatigue. At the time that I decided to talk to her about this poor performance, I was mostly concerned that a lack of motivation so early on in her undergrad would only escalate over time and negatively impact her career. After our talk, I was glad to note that her grades started to drastically change. She registered consistent improvement from the fourth semester and maintained an upward trend to the end. I was happy that not only did Tashaffi manage to achieve stellar grades in all of the subsequent semesters, she also secured the most sought after software engineering internship opportunity in Bangladesh. 
Later on, Tashaffi clarified how she used time-boxing to compartmentalize academic stress that ultimately got her back on track. She has always been one of my favorites and I believe that her relentless optimism, combined with the fact that she is an astoundingly level-headed individual are some of the traits that ultimately contributed to her victory. She is innately resilient and a force to reckon with. I know that any challenge that comes her way is treated as a building block.

I vividly remember that when she developed an interest in research and specifically in the domain of privacy and security, she reached out to a faculty member who had been working on this field and had voluntarily participated in a research project under her supervision amidst her professional commitments. Tashaffi has always demonstrated a keen sense of career direction. She sets specific goals and narrows down her focus to actively seek out opportunities that will steer her towards that direction.

Another quality of her that deserves a mention is that, she is a skillful speaker. She would always be the designated presenter during team projects in undergrad. Her communication skills, resolution, as well as her proactive and independent nature makes her well suited to face the challenges of postgrad studies in a foreign country. Therefore, I give her my highest recommendation. If she follows the trajectory of continual growth that she has demonstrated since her undergrad, I am confident that she will excel in her career.
