My father, a maritime legislator, rather unintentionally motivated me to study cybersecurity. He would tell me anecdotes about the complex futuristic legal debates on liability in case of cyber-attacks on automated vehicles. It is the image of donning the blue team hat to save the unmanned ships of the future from faceless pirates that motivated me to start looking into cyber security.

I had the privilege of studying in the topmost department of the most competitive university in Bangladesh. I experienced a significant drop in my academic performance initially due to burnout caused by my tendency to overwork myself. I focused on restructuring my all-or-nothing attitude towards achievement and in the end, I graduated with the prestigious Dean's list award on all four of the final semesters for outstanding academic achievement. My ability to recuperate from major setbacks in life has shaped my research and career trajectory. I worked under the supervision of extraordinarily accomplished researchers who piqued my interest in academic research early on in my career.

I have been working on a text to comic project under the supervision of Professor Dr. Md. Shamsuzzoha Bayzid of BUET and Rubaiat Habib Kazi of Adobe Research. Visual content has been a communication method since prehistoric times, way before hand-drawn or printed illustration came forth. Today, when we have access to an overwhelming amount of interactional information, they are not only an effective but compact means of portrayal. The challenge in this project was eliminating the human component from the initial comic generation as much as possible while still preserving the storytelling aspect of the post. Our goal was to generate the first comic strip without human interaction and afterward allow the user to modify and customize the system generated comic panels.
As our focus is storytelling and summarization, two major components of our system are- determining the correct facial expression, which depends on the emotion expressed in the dialogues, and summarizing the text while still maintaining semantic coherence. We used extractive summarization for identifying important sections of a post/comment. Emotion detection was particularly challenging because of the complex and often ambiguous nature of adult conversations.
We were unable to accurately recognize emotion due to the lack of domain-specific emotion annotated data. We solved the problem by measuring the cosine similarity between a sentence and a repository of sentences where each entry is representative of one of the seven emotions. A sentence gets the emotion label of the sentence that it is most similar to. This has worked with satisfactory accuracy. The repository can also be extended by taking input from users (How apps like google photos increase their accuracy by requesting users to help annotate images).
The avatar with the proper emotion and algorithmically generated text bubbles are then positioned in panels according to the nature of the exchange of dialogues. While working on emotion annotation, we created a dataset of 1556 emotion annotated sentences from the movie Garfield. There were three annotators, and we worked with seven basic emotions (Happy, Angry, Surprise, Sad, Fear, Disgust, Neutral). We achieved a Kappa measure of .73 (moderate agreement between raters). The dataset can be accessed here. Keeping this premise in mind, the goal of this project is to generate a visually pleasing graphical summary of social media posts. Considering the proliferation of visuals in modern communication and the numerous stories that take the form of posts or comments on social media every day, we wanted to build a tool that takes these narratives and depicts them in one of the most popular media of storytelling – pictures/comic strips.
I plan to submit this work to chi 2021. Results from this project and more details can be found on the project website.

Before I got started with security research, my goal was to familiarize myself with the fundamentals of this field. As my undergrad curriculum did not include a security-specific module, I signed up for the CompTIA Security+ certification exam. Upon getting certified, I attempted to self-teach myself ethical hacking by setting up my own security lab inspired by the book the network security test lab: a step-by-step guide. While doing this, I faced the chicken and egg problem of self-learning computer security as a young researcher. Getting hands-on experience with real-life systems is essential in order to gain domain-specific expertise. On the other hand, before being confident enough with my skillset, tampering with these systems without proper guidance is not only difficult but also potentially risky.

I was fortunate to be able to start an independent data privacy related research project under Dr. Tanzima hashem mam of Buet right around this time. Our work explores the realm of privacy-preserving and social-distance aware evaluation of group task query using crowdsourced computation. The motivation behind the research was the shift in the constraints on human mobility caused by the pandemic. 
We observed that the emergence of Covid-19 has changed travel priorities in a number of ways. The outdoor activities have been mostly short-range in nature. Not to mention, activity has been restricted in general ever since quarantine became the norm. Given this scenario, the most social- distance compliant trip is more preferable over the trip that ensures the most optimal route. Also, traveling has primarily been non-recreational during lockdown, which means users visit specific points of interest that meets their purpose, rather than the most popular or user recommended destinations. 
It is therefore necessary for location-based services to evolve according to the different priorities and constraints. In our approach, we discuss a new type of query called group task query. A user who wants to visit a set of POI categories, specifies multiple alternate trips where each trip consists of one poi belonging to each of the aforementioned categories. Our goal is to find the best trip. We define best, not in terms of the total trip distance or time, but the trip that introduces the least spatial overlap among visitors. We leave the choice of route, as well as the order of visit upto the user. 
As our system does not optimize route, it does not need to take the location of the user or the final destination as input. Therefore, we are not concerned with preserving location privacy, but privacy of user preference. We achieve that using crowdsourced Computation. Each user specifies a set of trusted users upon joining the system and only discloses their raw query to this set of users. Trusted users has three functions: • Combine and forward: Combining all the queries submitted to them, as well as 
their own query and forwarding the combined query to their own set of trusted 
users.
 • Prune: Discard any query which violates the maximum social-distance compliant 
capacity of any poi
 • Sort: Sort the combined trips according to their risk factor i.e. spatial overlap 
among visitors that accepting the trip will result. 
The centralized server then processes the final aggregate query which is stripped of personally identifiable information. It is intuitive that a large user base ensures in
 a high degree of anonymity, but it also results in an exponential number of trip combinations. The challenge of this approach lies in the computational complexity of sorting and forwarding the combined trips. We have designed and implemented efficient query processing algorithm that finds out lowest risk trips that locally minimize spatial overlap from a refined search space. We have processed 36,000,000 check-in data from the gowalla dataset and we are currently testing the efficiency and accuracy of our approach by running simulations using this data. 

I am currently working as an iOS developer at Samsung research and development, where I am responsible for building the video call module for FirstNet PTT- a mission-critical-push-to-talk app used by public-safety agencies throughout the U.S. During my software engineer Internship, I was part of a team that built an instance management tool from scratch using React and Python flask. I was responsible
for software migration and contributed to the largest customer onboarding (Royal Dutch shell) in our platform. Being part of the development of practical large-scale software systems fascinates me and my career aspiration is to be a research scientist in industry.

I am applying to queen's University because of their nserc cybersecurity create program. One of my  interest is the human component of security. This program focuses on the social and psychological factors in security threats with dedicated modules on this topic. The create program also provides internship opportunity.A chicken and egg problem in learning security for young researchers is that it is not advisable or expected that one can professionally pursue security without having the grasp of what they are doing, but the best way to learn it is also to tinker with real life it systems. The internship will bridge that gap. I am interested inworking under the supervision of dr- Mohammad zulkernain because of his contribution in a wide collection of security related topics. Specially his work related to connected vehicles really intrigue me because that is how my interest in security initially started.