My father, a maritime legislator, said to me, “The next generation of Maritime legislators will design laws for cyber pirates who hijack unmanned vessels. This got me wondering how often security breaches occur. Can I carry out a breach myself? I attempted to learn ethical hacking by setting up a personal security lab based on the book - A network security test lab and received CompTIA security+ certification along the way. My Google Hacking attempts made me re-evaluate the legal consequences of my curious endeavor. I decided to seek professional guidance of graduate school that specializes in security research. 
To refine my skills prior to graduate school, I collaborated with Prof. Tanzima Hashem (Elsevier awardee) on an independent study that addresses the need for the evolution of location-based services according to post-Covid travel priorities. We designed an anonymization scheme for a novel query which we call the ‘daily itinerary scheduling query’. The query request is stripped of meta-data and aggregated by intermediate nodes which are selected based on personal trust. Only the most social-distance compliant aggregate trips travel from the initiator to the central server through a hop-by-hop route. 
To tackle the problem of calculating risk factors and sorting the possibly exponential number of combined trips in resource- constrained devices, we developed an efficient query processing algorithm. We processed 36 million check-in data from the Gowalla dataset and conducted extensive experiments to verify that our proof-of-concept implementation processes queries 20 times faster than the baseline method.
During this project, I took inspiration from Prof. Mohammad Zulkernain’s works. The classification of collaborative privacy-preserving schemes and the trust-based vehicular coalition formation algorithm illustrated in two of his papers helped me refine the problem formulation of my research. The QRST lab addresses a wide range of other research problems that intrigues me (i.e. cloud security and secure cyber physical systems) and I wish to join the lab to gain a well-rounded experience.
Previously, designing for impatient users had been a research interest of mine which motivated me to explore - how reluctant readers interact with overwhelming textual content in social media. Together with Prof. Shamsuzzoha Bayzid (BUET) and Rubaiat Habib Kazi (Adobe Research),  we built a tool that automatically summarizes social media posts into comic strips with options of customization using a web-app that we developed. A detailed account of the workflow and results are available on the project website. We plan to submit our work in CHI-2021.
I am currently an iOS developer at Samsung R&D. I am responsible for building the video call module for FirstNet push to talk - a PTT app used by first responders throughout the U.S. The security architecture of mission critical video services is built from the ground up, with little to no scope for delegating critical security decisions to the users, as it has to account for the cognitive limitations of responders under the acute stress in dynamic crisis situations. My experience at Samsung R&D and as an HCI researcher has motivated me to pursue two questions. How can we design security policies that are not burdensome to the end-user? Can we build efficient large-scale privacy-enhancing systems informed by the layperson’s mental model of security threats? 
 
My career goal is to lead an industrial research lab. The NSERC cybersecurity CREATE program uniquely aligns with my research interests because of its socio-technical approach, as well as the internship opportunity with industrial partners that assures me that my goals align with the program’s objectives. Moreover, I have observed the career trajectory of graduates from QRST lab who are now part of reputed R&D institutes i.e. IBM; where I wish to see myself in the future. Thus, I have chosen Queen’s University to guide me through the path. 


