My first step towards security research was attempting to teach myself ethical hacking by setting up my own security lab inspired by the book A network security test lab. I learned how to locate open cameras on the internet using Google hacking. I was mesmerized by a live video of a vacation home somewhere in Denmark when it dawned on me that I was not aware of the practical implications of my curious endeavor.

I decided to forgo the script kiddie route and seek out professional guidance. I collaborated with Professor Tanzima Hashem (Elsevier award winner in the field of internet privacy) on an independent study that addresses the need for location-based services to evolve, according to the shift in travel priorities due to Covid-19. Our goal is the privacy-preserving evaluation of a novel type of query called the daily itinerary scheduling query. The query request travels from the initiator to the central server through a hop-by-hop route, where the next relay selection is based on personal trust between users. Every intermediate node in our system forwards only the most social-distance compliant trips. We developed efficient query processing algorithms and are currently testing our implementation upon analyzing 36 million check-in data from the Gowalla dataset.

During this project, I took inspiration from the works of Professor Urs Hengartner and Professor Ian Goldberg. The adversary model outlined in the paper On The Privacy Implications of Location Semantics and the scalability issues of anonymity networks raised in the paper Walking Onions helped me refine the problem formulation for my research. I also found professor Florian Kerschbaum's work on secure computation and differential privacy particularly interesting.

For the past several months, I have been working on a self-proposed research project under the supervision of Professor Shamsuzzoha Bayzid of BUET and Rubaiat Habib Kazi of Adobe Research, which aims to generate graphical summaries of social media posts in the form of comic strips. Our tool fully automates the comic illustration and afterward lets the user customize the comic strips' appearance using a web app that we developed. A detailed account of the project's motivation, workflow, and research results can be found on the project website. We plan to submit this work to Chi 2021.

Currently, I am an iOS developer at Samsung Research. I am responsible for building the video call module for FirstNet PTT - a mission-critical-push-to-talk app used by public-safety agencies throughout the U.S. My experience at Samsung and as a human-computer interaction researcher has shaped my research vision. I am interested in building practical privacy-enhancing systems that are informed by psychological models of consumer decision- making, especially in the context of ubiquitous computing and large-scale data processing.

My academic and professional experience instilled in me a leadership capability that influenced my career goal: to lead a security research lab in the industry. I believe the breadth of expertise and computational resources that the CrySP research group of the University of Waterloo offers will be conducive to the metamorphosis of a young researcher.