My father is one of my biggest advisors. He is a maritime legislator and often speaks of his work. One of the things which struck me the most was when he said that the next generation of maritime legislators would be designing laws for cyber pirates who hijack unmanned vessels. This got me thinking of security breaches, and how often they occur. Can I carry out a breach myself? 

I attempted to teach myself ethical hacking by setting up my own security test lab inspired by the book - A Network Security Test Lab. I also received CompTIA security+ certification along the way. One of my Google Hacking attempts, which allowed me access to open passwords and security cameras, made me re-evaluate the legal consequences of my curious endeavor. I decided to seek the professional guidance of a graduate school that specializes in security research. 

To refine my skills before graduate school, I collaborated with Professor Tanzima Hashem (Elsevier award winner in the field of internet privacy) on an independent study that addresses the need for location-based services to evolve according to the shift in travel priorities due to Covid-19. Our goal is to design a scalable evaluation and anonymization scheme for a novel query called the Daily Itinerary Scheduling Query. The query request is stripped of meta-data and aggregated by intermediate nodes which are selected based on personal trust. Only the most social-distance compliant aggregate trips travel from the initiator to the central server through a hop-by-hop route. 

We have developed an efficient query processing algorithm to tackle the problem of calculating the risk factors and sorting the possibly exponential number of combined trips in resource-constrained devices. We processed 36 million check-in data from the Gowalla dataset to conduct extensive experiments and the results show that our prototype implementation processes queries 20 times faster than the baseline method. During my research, I took inspiration Professor David Barrera’s publication on high performance anonymity systems- TARANET. I want to look further into the realm of privacy-preserving collaboration and scalable anonymity networks. I believe joining the CISL lab would allow me to pursue my interest in this topic. 

Previously, designing for impatient users had been a research interest of mine, which motivated me to explore how reluctant/struggling readers interact with the overwhelming amount of textual content on social media. I proposed the idea of generating graphical summaries of social media posts in the form of comic strips. Under the supervision of Professor Shamsuzzoha Bayzid (BUET) and Rubaiat Habib Kazi (Adobe Research), we built a tool that automates the comic illustration with customization options afterward using a web-app. A detailed account of the workflow and results are available on the project website: https://tashaffisaminyeasar.com/text-to-comics/. We plan to submit our work to CHI 2021. From this experience, I learned about the interaction between interface design and human cognitive processes, setting the ground for my future research endeavors. 
I got my first taste of large-scale software development during my software engineering internship at NewsCred. As part of the software migration team, I contributed to the largest customer onboarding (Royal Dutch Shell) to our platform. I am currently an iOS developer at Samsung research and development. I am responsible for building the video call module for FirstNet push to talk. This is a PTT app used by first responders throughout the U.S., which has to meet the rigorous public safety standards of quality, security, and reliability. The security architecture of mission- critical video services is built from the ground up, with little to no scope for delegating critical security decisions to the users, as it has to take into account the cognitive limitations of responders under acute stress in dynamic crisis situations. 

My experience at Samsung R&D and as a human-computer interaction researcher motivated me to look into two questions. 1. How can we design security policies in a manner which is not burdensome to the end-user? 2. Can we build efficient large-scale privacy-enhancing systems informed by the layperson's mental model of security threats? My research interest closely aligns with Professor Elizabeth Stobert, evident from the fact that the paper Understanding Cybersecurity Practices in Emergency Departments by Professor Elizabeth Stobert and Professor David Barrera explores a similar research question. Additionally, I am keen on learning more about Professor Sonia Chiasson’s work on the role of instructional design to improve security. 

After recuperating from an initial academic setback, I managed to sharpen my analytical skills over time, as proven by my improvement in grades from a 3.16 junior year average to a 3.90 senior year average. Moreover, my academic and professional experience instilled in me a leadership capability that influenced my career goal: leading an industrial research lab. I realized that I need to deepen my understanding of the fundamental concepts and learn the best practices of security research before I can consider myself fit for the role. The graduate program at Carleton University stands out to me as an ideal stepping stone. Firstly, because of the wide range of research problems that multiple security labs at Carleton explore. Secondly, I have observed the career trajectories of graduates from these labs who are now security researchers at reputed institutes, i.e., Ericsson, Qohash etc., where I wish to see myself in the future. Thus, I have chosen Carleton University to guide me through the path. 

