                                              Study Plan (Tashaffi Samin Yeasar)

Global connectivity and ubiquitous computing have made sure that our society is more technology-reliant than ever before. They have also given rise to increasingly sophisticated cybercriminals, which means that today even the most accredited organization can't be complacent. I developed a keen interest in security research after graduating from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in 2019. I found the opportunity to deeply explore my area of professional interest in Samsung Research and Development Bangladesh, where I am part of the development team for a security-intensive push to talk app built for first responders. 

I attempted to teach myself ethical hacking by setting up my personal security lab, as cybersecurity was not one of the topics which were extensively covered in my undergrad curriculum. Self-learning computer security as a young researcher, however, poses a chicken and egg problem. Getting hands-on experience with real-life systems is essential in order to gain domain-specific expertise. On the other hand, before being confident enough with my skillset, tampering with these systems without proper guidance is not only difficult but also potentially risky.

I contacted faculty members of my university and participated in a voluntary research project to bridge the gap in my skillset. Ultimately, I decided to pursue a full-time master’s degree, since the research project required me to allocate an extensive amount of time outside my job responsibilities. My undergrad institution has been consistently ranked the top engineering university in Bangladesh. It was not possible to find another university in Bangladesh that could provide better research opportunities. 

I started looking into postgraduate degrees abroad. I considered multiple factors into account when shortlisting the programs- reputation of the institution, alignment of research interests, intellectual and computational facilities provided by the lab, etc. Moreover, I also looked for a culturally diverse environment that will help me become a well-rounded researcher. Queen’s University in Canada stood out to me as the best option in all of these aspects. Queen’s School of Computing offers the NSERC Cybersecurity CREATE program, which is a specialization of the existing graduate degree program at Queen's that focuses specifically on security research. The course curriculum and previous publications from faculty members assure me that my goals uniquely align with the program’s objectives. 

Upon completion of my studies, I hope I will have the requisite ethical guidelines and technical expertise that will help me achieve my ultimate career goal: leading an industrial research lab. There has been an explosion in the number of CS graduates in Bangladesh recently. While an undergraduate degree suffices for entry-level jobs, a postgraduate degree is not only desirable but often necessary to secure managerial positions in Bangladesh. Thus a master’s degree will be a valuable addition to my resume.

I had the opportunity to accompany my father, a former marine officer, on numerous voyages. While my parents have always loved exploring new countries, a profound sense of responsibility towards their country motivated them to permanently settle in Bangladesh. They have instilled in me the same commitment to my country. After completing my program, I plan to come back to Bangladesh to take care of my parents and contribute to the R&D sector of Bangladesh to the best of my capacity. 

Thank you so much for considering my application.

Tashaffi Samin Yeasar
tashaffiyeasar@gmail.com
02/03/2021
